                                                                Assignment-1



1]What does one mean by the term 'machine learning'?
ans)Machine learning is an application of AI that enables systems to learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning focuses on developing computer programs that can access data and use it to learn for themselves.
examples-chatgpt,mechatronics,adas,


2]Can you think of 4 distinct types of issues where it shines?
ans)The four distinct types of issues where it shines are-
    1)spam detection in email
    2)cancer dignosis
    3) fraudulent credit card transactions
    4)automatically driving vehicle


3]What is a labeled training set, and how does it work?
ans)The training set is used to train the algorithm, and then you use the trained model on the test set to predict the response variable values that are already known.The spam detection in email is the best exmple of the labeled training set. 


4.What are the two most important tasks that are supervised?
ans)Two most common supervised tasks are classification and regression.


5.Can you think of four examples of unsupervised tasks?
ans)The main applications of unsupervised learning include-
    1) clustering
    2) visualization 
    3) dimensionality reduction
    4) finding association rules
    5) anomaly detection.


6.State the machine learning model that would be best to make a robot walk through various
unfamiliar terrains?
ans)The machie learning nodel that would be best to make a robot walk through various unfamiliar terrains is reinforced learning, where the robot can learn from response of the terrein to optimize itself.

7.Which algorithm will you use to divide your customers into different groups?
ans)

8.Will you consider the problem of spam detection to be a supervised or unsupervised learning
problem?
ans)Spam detection is a supervised learning problem.

9.What is the concept of an online learning system?
ans)The concept of online learning is the system of virtual learnig were in students can study from any part of the world. It is better than offline eduaction because it helps the students get more knowledge about the networking, online websites , online learning.

#10.What is out-of-core learning, and how does it differ from core learning?	
ans)

#11.What kind of learning algorithm makes predictions using a similarity measure?
ans)

12.Whats the difference between a model parameter and a hyperparameter in a learning algorithm?
ans)A model parameter is a variable of the selected model which can be estimated by fitting the given data to the model. 
A model hyperparameter is the parameter whose value is set before the model start training. They cannot be learned by fitting the model to the data.

#13.What are the criteria that model-based learning algorithms look for? What is the most popular method they use to achieve success? What method do they use to make predictions?
ans)

14.Can you name four of the most important Machine Learning challenges?
ans)The four of the most important machine learning challenges are -
1)infrastucture requirments for the testing and experiments most companies that are facing machine laerning challenges
2)lack of talent
3)time consuming implementation
4)rigid business models

#15.What happens if the model performs well on the training data but fails to generalize the results to new situations? Can you think of three different options?
ans)

16.What exactly is a test set, and why would you need one?
ans)A test set is a portion of a data set used in data mining to assess the likely future performance of a single prediction or classification model.

17.What is a validation sets purpose?
ans)The validation sets purpose is that it is a set of data to train AI with the goal of finding and optimizing the best model to solve  agiven problem. 

#18.What precisely is the train-dev kit, when will you need it, how do you put it to use?
ans)

#19.What could go wrong if you use the test set to tune hyperparameters?
ans)




























